---
title : Operating System Structure-2.7
description : chapter 2.7  of the <Operating System Concepts>
tags : [os, notes, ]
---

# Operating System Structure

---

## 2.7 - OS Design and Implementation

> This topic describes what OS should do, how OS is built.

### OS Design Goals

- User goals : Easy to use, reliable, fast, secure.
- System goals : Efficient resource use, easy to design, maintain, flexible and portable.

There is always a tradeoff between features <-> complexity and portability <-> performance.

### Policy vs Mechanism

- **Policy** : What should be done? For example, which process to run next (scheduler policy).
- **Mechanism** : How something is done? For example, how to switch processes.

> Mechanisms should be general enough to support many policies.

### Implementation Language

Most of the OS kernel is written by high-level languages for easier maintainence and portability. 
But low-level assembly is still needed for bootloader, context switching, interrupt handling, hardware traps.

### OS structure

See next topic.

### OS debugging

OS debugging includes log files, core dumps, traces, performance monitoring tools, kernel debuggers.

### Boot Process

1. Power on.
2. Firmware (BIOS/UEFI) runs POST.
3. Firmare loads the **bootloader** (GRUB, LILO, Windows Boot Manager).
4. Bootloader loads the kernel into memory.
5. Kernel initializes interrupts, memory manager, scheduler, drivers.
6. Kernel runs the first process (```systemd``` for Linux).
7. User environment starts.

---

### Extra Points

#### Loader vs Bootloader

> Loader loads executable programs into memory. Bootloader loads the OS when starting up.

---
