---
title : Operating System Structure-2.9
description : chapter 2.9 of the <Operating System Concepts>
tags : [os, notes, ]
---

# Operating System Structure

---

## 2.9 - Building and Booting an Operating System

> Building OS : Configuring and compiling the kernel.

> Booting OS : Loading the kernel into memory and starting it.

### Building an OS

Before the OS runs, it must be built for a particular system.

1. Configuring the kernel : OS must include device drivers, file system modules, scheduler settings...
2. Compiling the kernel : Preprocessing -> Compiling to object files -> linking into a kernel binary -> packaging into a bootable image.
3. Installing the kernel : Install kernel binary, modules, update bootloader configuration.
4. System generation : Tailoring OS to a specific computer system.

### Booting the OS

Booting is the process of loading the OS into memory and starting execution.

1. Power on.
2. Firmware runs (BIOS/UEFI) : Performans POST, initializes CPU, memory, basic hardware, finds boot devices (SSD/HDD/USB).
3. Bootloader is loaded (GRUB/Windows Boot Manager).
4. Bootloader loads the kernel into memory : Reads kernel image, places it at proper memory location, prepares kernel arguments.
5. Kernel initialization : Sets up interrupt vectors, memory manager, process scheduler...
6. Kernel starts the first user-space process : ```systemd``` with PID = 1, brings up services, login screen, user environment.

### Bootloader Responsibilities

1. Locate kernel.
2. Load kernel into memory.
3. Switch CPU to correct mode (32/64-bit).
4. Provide kernel parameters.
5. Jump to kernel entry point.

---

### Extra Points

#### Why OS must be built/configured

> Different hardware needs different drivers and kernel options to support. 

#### Kernel is only loaded once

> After booting, kernel remains resident in memory.

---
