---
title : Computer Abstruction and Techonology-1.1
description : chapter 1.1 of the <Computer Organization and Design>
tags : [co, notes, ]
---

# Computer Abstruction and Techonology

---

## 1.1 - Introduction

> This section sets the mindset for the whole book : How computers are designed using layers of abstraction and ISA connect software to hardware.

### Moore's Law

> The uumber of transistors on a chip roughly doubled every 2 years.

- Faster transistors -> Faster processors.
- Larger memory capacity.
- More energy-efficient designs.

### Need for Abstraction

- Instruction set architecture (ISA) : Interface between software and hardware.
- Hardware implementation : Actual circuits that execute the ISA. For example, pipelines, ALU, cache.
- Operating system abstraction : Virtual memory, processes, file system.
- High-level languages.

### RISC Philosophy

> RISC stand for reduced instruction set computer.

Reduce hardware complexity to improve performance and energy efficiency.

- Simple instruction set.
- Regular encoding.
- Load/store architecture.
- Lots of registers.
- Easy to pipeline

---

### Extra Points

#### RISC-V is ISA, NOT a processor

> RISC-V is only the instruction set. Real chips are implementations.

#### RISC vs CISC

> CISC stand for complex instruction set computer.
> It uses a large set of complex instrucions that can perform multiple operations at once.

#### Moore's Law != Performance

> Moore's law describes transistor count, not speed.

---
