---
title : Computer Abstruction and Techonology-1.2
description : chapter 1.2 of the <Computer Organization and Design>
tags : [co, notes, ]
---

# Computer Abstruction and Techonology

---

## 1.2 - Seven Great Ideas in Computer Architecture

> This topic highlights the seven foundational priciples that shaped modern computers.

### Use Abstraction to Simplify Design

Break complex systems into layers. For example, applications -> compiler -> ISA -> microarchitecture -> hardware logic.

### Make Common Case Fast

Optimize the most frequently executed operations, not rare cases. For example, cache, fast integer operations.

### Paralleism

Do more things at the same time. 
- Instruction-level parallelism (ILP) -> Pipeline.
- Data parallelism -> Vector/SIMD.
- Thread-level parallelism -> Multicore CPU.

### Pipelining

A special case of parallelism. 
Breaking execution into stages, and each stage works on a different instruction simultaneously.

### Prediction

Predict values or control flow to avoid waiting for slow operations. For example, branch prediction, memory prediction.

### Hierarchy of Memories

> Temporal/spatial locality : if a data is recently used or nearby, it is possible that it will be used soon.

Using levels to hide memory latency, and keeping frequently used data in faster memory.

### Redundancy

Systems must be reliable and able to detect, and recover from hardware faults.
For example, error-correcting codes (ECC) memory, RAID, parity bits.

---

### Extra Points

#### Parallelism vs Pipelining

> Parallelism means doing many tasks at once. Pipelining is a form of parallelism,
> which overlaps the execution of different tasks by breaking a single task into sequential stages.

---
