---
title : Computer Abstruction and Techonology-1.6
description : chapter 1.6 of the <Computer Organization and Design>
tags : [co, notes, ]
---

# Computer Abstruction and Techonology

---

## 1.6 - Performance

> How we define and compute the performance of a CPU.

### What Does Performance Mean?

Performance is how quickly a computer completes a task.

- **Execution Time (Response Time)** : Time takes to complete a program.
- **Throughput** : Total amount of work done over time.

Performance is inversely proportional to execute time. 
If computer A, B executed the same tasks in 8, 4 seconds respectively. We say B runs 2 times faster than A.

### CPU Performance

- **Instruction Count (IC)** : Number of instructions. Depends on program, compiler, ISA.
- **Cycles per Instruction** (CPI): Depends on processor design, pipelining/hazards, instruction types.
- **Clock Cycle Time** : Seconds per cycle. Clock cycle time = 1 / Clock Rate.
- **Clock Rate** : Cycles per second (Hz). Higher clock rate means faster cycles. Limited by power, heat, circuit delay.

``` math
CPU Time = IC * CPI * Clock Cycle Time = (IC * CPI) / Clock Rate
```

### Amdahl's Law

Amdahl's law implies the overall improvement is limited by the portion of the task that is sequential.
You cannot get big speedups by improving a small part of the system. 

- f : fraction of execution time affected.
- S : speedup scale of the improved part.

``` math
Speedup = 1 / [(1 - f) + f / S]
```

---

### Extra Points

#### CPI is NOT fixed

> CPI is the average cycles needed for execute one instruction.
> Different program has different mix types of instruction, thus has different CPI.
> And different CPU can have different CPI on one program due to the different design.

---
